Great to see you again!
While working as an entry-level security
analyst, your main responsibility is to
help protect your organization's sensitive
assets and data from threat actors.
The CIA triad is a core security
model that will help you do that.
In this video, we'll explore the CIA
triad and discuss the importance of each
component for keeping an organization safe
from threats, risks, and vulnerabilities.
Let's get started!
The CIA triad is a model that
helps inform how organizations
consider risk when setting up systems and
security policies.
As a reminder, the three letters
in the CIA triad stand for
confidentiality, integrity, and
availability.
As an entry-level analyst, you'll
find yourself constantly referring to
these three core principles as you
work to protect your organization and the people
it serves.
Confidentiality means that only authorized
users can access specific assets or data.
Sensitive data should be available
on a "need to know" basis, so
that only the people who are authorized to
handle certain assets or data have access.
Integrity means that the data is correct,
authentic, and reliable.
Determining the integrity of data and
analyzing how it's used will help you, as
a security professional, decide whether
the data can or cannot be trusted.
Availability means that the data
is accessible to those who
are authorized to access it.
Inaccessible data isn't useful and
can prevent people from
being able to do their jobs.
As a security professional, ensuring
that systems, networks, and
applications are functioning
properly to allow for timely and
reliable access, may be a part of
your everyday work responsibilities.
Now that we've defined the CIA triad and
its components,
let's explore how you might use the CIA
triad to protect an organization.
If you work for an organization that has
large amounts of private data like a bank,
the principle of confidentiality
is essential because
the bank must keep people's personal and
financial information safe.
The principle of integrity
is also a priority.
For example,
if a person's spending habits or
purchasing locations change dramatically,
the bank will likely disable
access to the account until they
can verify that the account owner,
not a threat actor, is actually
the one making purchases.
The availability principle
is also critical.
Banks put a lot of effort
into making sure that people
can access their account
information easily on the web.
And to make sure that information is
protected from threat actors, banks
use a validation process to help
minimize damage if they suspect that
customer accounts have been compromised.
As an analyst,
you'll regularly use each component of
the triad to help protect your
organization and the people it serves.
And having the CIA triad
constantly in mind,
will help you keep sensitive data and
assets safe from a variety of threats,
risks, and vulnerabilities including
the social engineering attacks,
malware, and
data theft we discussed earlier.
Coming up, we'll explore specific
frameworks and principles that will also
help you protect your organization from
threats, risks, and vulnerabilities.
See you soon!